Upgrading from r151008 to r151010
=================================

One may upgrade to r151010 from r151008.

**NOTE:** If you are running r151006 and wish to upgrade to r151010,
please upgrade to r151008 first. See Upgrade instructions:
\[wiki:Upgrade\_r151006\_r151008\]

Performing the Upgrade
----------------------

If you have non-global native (ipkg) zones, they must be shutdown and
detached at this time. Once the global zone is updated and rebooted, the
zones will be upgraded as they are re-attached to the system. This is
not necessary for s10-branded zones or KVM guests.

After shutting down the zones gracefully (zlogin; shutdown -i5 -g0 -y):

It would also be a good idea to take a ZFS snapshot of the zone root in
case it's needed for rollback (such as if there are issues with the zone
upgrade.) where <zoneroot> is the name of the ZFS dataset whose
mountpoint corresponds to the value of *zonepath* in the zone's
configuration. There are child datasets under this one, so we use the
option to recursively snapshot all.

Because r151010 moves OmniOS to a dedicated repo for each release, you
will first need to set the package publisher to the repository for
r151010:

Update the global zone. The argument is optional, but it's nice to use a
name that's more meaningful than “omnios-N”. Add a '-nv' after the
'update' sub-command to do a dry run if you're unsure of what will
happen.

This will create a new BE and install r151010 packages into it. When it
is complete, reboot your system. The new BE will now be the default
option in GRUB. If your hardware supports it, you may get into the new
BE via [fast reboot](http://illumos.org/man/1M/reboot), in which case
you won't see a GRUB menu.

Once booted into your new r151010 BE, if you don't have non-global
zones, you are done with the upgrade.

If you have non-global native (ipkg) zones, attach each one with the
option, which will upgrade the zone's core packages to match the global
zone.

Assuming the attach succeeds, the zone may be booted as usual:
