Upgrading from r151002 to r151004
=================================

Note Current BE Name
--------------------

Make a note of the name of your current boot environment (BE) in case
you need to roll back. It may look something like this:

The current BE is the one marked 'NR' (active now, active on reboot.)

Update pkg(1)
-------------

A newer version of the pkg client is necessary to perform the upgrade.

Pre-update Fixes
----------------

Update 2 packages in the current BE that could break the upgrade
process. These are metadata changes only-- no on-disk content changes
with these updates. **If you have non-global zones, these packages must
be updated within each zone as well.**

Perform the Upgrade
-------------------

If you have non-global native (ipkg) zones, they must be shutdown and
detached at this time. Once the global zone is updated and rebooted, the
zones will be upgraded as they are re-attached to the system. This is
not necessary for s10-branded zones or KVM guests.

After shutting down the zones gracefully (zlogin; shutdown -i5 -g0 -y):

It would also be a good idea to take a ZFS snapshot of the zone root in
case it's needed for rollback (such as if there are issues with the zone
upgrade.) where <zoneroot> is the name of the ZFS dataset whose
mountpoint corresponds to the value of *zonepath* in the zone's
configuration. There are child datasets under this one, so we use the
option to recursively snapshot all.

Update the global zone. The argument is optional, but it's nice to use a
name that's more meaningful than “omnios-N”.

This will create a new BE and install r151004 packages into it. When it
is complete, reboot your system. The new BE will now be the default
option in GRUB. If your hardware supports it, you may get into the new
BE via [fast reboot](http://illumos.org/man/1M/reboot), in which case
you won't see a GRUB menu.

Once booted into your new r151004 BE, if you don't have non-global
zones, you're done.

If you have non-global native (ipkg) zones, attach each one with the
option, which will upgrade the zone's core packages to match the global
zone.

Assuming the attach succeeds, the zone may be booted as usual:

Rolling Back
------------

### ZFS Upgrade

OmniOS r151004 includes a new zpool version that supports feature flags.
Post-upgrade you will see a message like this in **zpool status**:

**If you want to be able to roll back to your previous environment, DO
NOT upgrade your zpools yet.** The upgrade is one-way and irreversible.
Any zpool that is upgraded will be unusable on r151002.

If, for some reason, you need to roll back to r151002, simply activate
the previous BE and reboot. where <be-name> is the name of the previous
BE that you noted at the beginning.

If you have native zones but had not yet attempted to attach them, they
remain unchanged from the previous BE and may be re-attached once booted
into the previous BE. Simply omit the from the attach example above.
Note that even if you tried to attach but the attachment failed
completely (perhaps due to a packaging issue), then the zone data
remains unchanged and you can still safely re-attach it in the previous
BE.

If you are rolling back because there was a problem with the zone attach
in which the zone was partially updated, then you will need to roll back
each of the zone root datasets that you snapshotted after detachment.
There is no recursive rollback, so we have to roll back each of the
datasets one at a time.
